financebench_id: financebench_id_00494

We must minimize disruption caused by production changes, achieve operational stability and implement productivity improvements in order to\nmeet customer demand and maintain our profitability. We have previously announced plans to adjust production rates on several of our\ncommercial aircraft programs. The 787 program is currently producing at low rates and we expect to gradually increase to 5 per month in 2023.\nProduction of the 777X is currently paused and is expected to resume in 2023. The 737 program has experienced operational and supply chain\nchallenges stabilizing production at 31 per month. We plan to gradually increase 737 production rates based on market demand and supply\nchain capacity.
doc_name: BOEING_2022_10K
evidence_page_num: 8
evidence_text_full_page: Table of Contents\nAirlines also are experiencing increased fuel and other costs, and the global economy is experiencing high inflation.\nOur Commercial Airplanes business depends on our ability to maintain a healthy production system, ensure every airplane in our\nproduction system conforms to our exacting specifications, achieve planned production rate targets, successfully develop and certify\nnew aircraft or new derivative aircraft, and meet or exceed stringent performance and reliability standards.\nThe commercial aircraft business is extremely complex, involving extensive coordination and integration with U.S and non-U.S. suppliers, highly-\nskilled labor performed by thousands of employees of ours and other partners, and stringent and evolving regulatory requirements and\nperformance and reliability standards. The FAA has been working to implement safety reforms such as the 2018 FAA Reauthorization Act and\nthe 2020 Aircraft Certification, Safety and Accountability Act (ACSAA). One of these, section 116 of the ACSAA prohibited the FAA from issuing a\ntype certificate to aircraft after December 27, 2022 unless the aircrafts flight crew alerting system met certain specifications. The Consolidated\nAppropriations Act, 2023 amended Section 116 of the ACSAA, such that applications for original or amended type certifications that were\nsubmitted to the FAA prior to December 27, 2020, including those of the 737-7 and 737-10, are no longer subject to the crew alerting\nspecifications of Section 116. Additionally, beginning one year after the FAA issues the type certificate for the 737-10, any new 737 MAX aircraft\nmust include certain safety enhancements to be issued an original airworthiness certification by the FAA. These enhancements are included in\nBoeings application for the certification for the 737-10, and the sufficiency of these enhancements will be determined by the FAA. Beginning\nthree years after the issuance of a type certificate for the 737-10, all previously delivered 737 MAX aircraft must be retrofitted with these safety\nenhancements. As the holder of the type certificate, Boeing is required to bear any costs of these safety enhancement retrofits. We have\nprovisioned for the estimated costs associated with the safety enhancements and do not expect those costs to be material. If we experience\ndelays in achieving certification and/or incorporating safety enhancements, future revenues, cash flows and results of operations could be\nadversely impacted. Comparable agencies in other countries may adopt similar changes. To the extent the FAA or similar regulatory agencies\noutside the U.S. implement more stringent regulations, we may incur additional compliance costs. In addition, the introduction of new aircraft\nprograms and/or derivatives, such as the 777X, 737-7 and 737-10, involves increased risks associated with meeting development, testing,\ncertification and production schedules.\nIn addition, we have experienced production quality issues, including in our supply chain, which have contributed to lower 787 deliveries,\nincluding a suspension of 787 deliveries from May 2021 to August 2022. We continue to conduct inspections and rework on built and stored 787\naircraft. A number of our customers have contractual remedies, including compensation for late deliveries or rights to reject individual airplane\ndeliveries based on delivery delays. Delays on the 737, 777X and 787 programs have resulted in, and may continue to result in, customers\nhaving the right to terminate orders, be compensated for late deliveries and/or substitute orders for other Boeing aircraft.\nWe must minimize disruption caused by production changes, achieve operational stability and implement productivity improvements in order to\nmeet customer demand and maintain our profitability. We have previously announced plans to adjust production rates on several of our\ncommercial aircraft programs. The 787 program is currently producing at low rates and we expect to gradually increase to 5 per month in 2023.\nProduction of the 777X is currently paused and is expected to resume in 2023. The 737 program has experienced operational and supply chain\nchallenges stabilizing production at 31 per month. We plan to gradually increase 737 production rates based on market demand and supply\nchain capacity. In addition, we continue to seek opportunities to reduce the costs of building our aircraft, including working with our suppliers to\nreduce supplier costs, identifying and implementing productivity improvements and optimizing how we manage inventory. If production rate\nchanges at any of our\n7\n
